
Here's how to test v1.12 on your own computer. It takes about 15 minutes. Run every command in a terminal inside the unzipped caidea folder.

1. Before you start
You need Node.js 20 or newer (I tested with Node 22). Check with node -v; if it's older, install the LTS version from nodejs.org.
Use a new folder, so your current copy and its database aren't touched.
On the phone with your authenticator app (Google Authenticator, Microsoft Authenticator or Authy) ready, because staff sign-in needs 2FA.
2. Unzip and install

Windows (PowerShell):

powershell
Expand-Archive caidea-v1.12.zip -DestinationPath C:\caidea-test
cd C:\caidea-test\caidea
npm ci

Mac / Linux:

bash
unzip caidea-v1.12.zip -d ~/caidea-test
cd ~/caidea-test/caidea
npm ci
3. Create the settings file and the database
bash
npm run setup:env
npm run db:setup
npm run staff:create -- --email owner@caidea.test --name "Test Owner" --role OWNER
setup:env creates .env.local with sample bank and JazzCash details. That's fine for testing.
db:setup creates the database, loads sample products and ends with "All checks passed."
staff:create asks you to type a password for the owner login. Choose one and remember it.
4. Run the automated checks
bash
npm test
npm run lint
npm run typecheck
npm run db:verify
Command	You should see
npm test	Tests 162 passed (162)
npm run lint	nothing printed (no errors)
npm run typecheck	nothing printed (no errors)
npm run db:verify	All checks passed.
5. Build and start the shop
bash
npm run build
npm start
npm run build ends with a list of pages and no red errors.
npm start runs the shop. Leave this window open while you test.

Open http://localhost:3000 in the browser on the same computer. Use localhost, not the computer's network address (192.168…); otherwise sign-in and the order cookie won't stick.

6. Test in the browser

A. Shop settings

Go to http://localhost:3000/login, sign in as the owner and set up 2FA. Save the backup codes.
Go to Admin → Shop settings.
Enter the Shop phone, WhatsApp number and Sales email, then click Save settings.
Check that "Free delivery when the customer pays in advance" is ticked, and that the waiting time is 24 hours.

B. A cash-on-delivery order (under Rs 20,000)

Go to the store, open a cheap screen (for example a Galaxy A14), add it to the cart and go to checkout.
Fill in name, mobile, email (it's required now), address and city.
In Payment you should see two cards: Cash on delivery and Place order & pay in advance (FREE DELIVERY).
Choose Cash on delivery. The summary should show the delivery fee plus the COD fee.
Click Place order. The confirmation page shows the full order and a Download PDF button.

C. A pay-in-advance order (over Rs 20,000)

Use a fresh cart with a Galaxy S23 Ultra (Rs 61,200 in the sample data).
At checkout, the Cash on delivery card should be greyed out with the message "Only for orders up to Rs 20,000".
Choose Place order & pay in advance and check that:
the accounts appear (Bank IBAN, JazzCash, Easypaisa);
the steps say "Within 24 hours, send the payment slip (screenshot) and the transaction ID with your order number — WhatsApp … or email …";
the summary shows Delivery: Free (paid in advance);
the button reads "Place order & pay in advance · Rs …".
Pick Bank transfer and place the order. The next page should show:
"Order placed — waiting for your payment";
the order number in a "write this in the remarks" box;
the Send payment slip on WhatsApp, Call and Email buttons, and Download PDF.
Open the PDF and check the delivery line says "Free (paid in advance)".

D. Cash on delivery paused

In Shop settings, set Cash on delivery → Paused, type a message and save.
At checkout, the COD card should show "Paused right now" with your message. Pay in advance still works.
Set Cash on delivery back to On and save.

E. Free delivery switched off

In Shop settings, untick Free delivery and save.
Place another pay-in-advance order: the delivery fee should now be charged.
Tick Free delivery again and save.

F. Handling an order in admin

Go to Admin → Online orders and open the order from C.
Click Record payment proof.
Tick "I checked the statement…" and click Confirm payment. The status changes to Paid.
Choose a courier, type a tracking number and click Mark dispatched.
Reopen the customer's order page: it now shows the courier and tracking number.

G. Privacy check

Open a private/incognito window and go to http://localhost:3000/order/<the order number>.
It must ask for the phone number and show no name or address.
7. Optional: testing the emails

Without Gmail set up, orders still work; the emails are just recorded as "not sent" in the order's email log.

To test real emails:

Stop the shop with Ctrl + C.
In .env.local, fill in GMAIL_USER, GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD (the 16-letter app password) and ALERT_EMAIL_TO.
Run npm start again.
Use Shop settings → Send a test email, then place an order using your own email address. You should get:
the order email (items, accounts, 24-hour instructions and a private link);
a copy at the sales email;
"payment received" and "dispatched" emails when you do step F.
8. Optional: testing the 24-hour cancellation

The automatic cancellation runs when this command is called. While npm start is running, open a second terminal in the same folder and run it there. Take CRON_SECRET from .env.local:

powershell
curl.exe -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_CRON_SECRET" http://localhost:3000/api/cron/expire-unpaid

On Mac/Linux use curl instead of curl.exe.

It returns {"cancelled":[...]}. Only pay-in-advance orders older than 24 hours with no payment proof recorded are cancelled, so a fresh order won't appear in the list.

Updating your existing copy instead

To keep your current data, copy the new files over your existing copy (keep your .env.local and the data folder), then run:

bash
npm install
npm run db:migrate
npm run build
npm start

db:migrate backs up the database into data/backups/ first.

If checkout still looks like the old version, the old build is still running: stop it, run npm run build again, then npm start.